everyone is doing digital marketing
especially after the pandemic hey
everyone i'm neil patel and today i'm
going to break down if digital marketing
is going to be saturated in 2022
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
global digital ad spend will reach 380
billion dollars in 2021.
now it's going to even go up more in
2022 2023 and etc
while worldwide digital ad spending
achieved a modest 2.4 percent increase
in 2020 it's expected to shoot up 70 in
2021 according to e marker
u.s social media ad spend reached 43
billion dollars in 2020. now i know
that's passed now right but still that
was a 20 increase from 2019 according to
emarketer
the answer is it's going to be the most
saturated environment ever in the
history of digital marketing
look i promise you one thing i'm going
to present to you with the way you can
differentiate yourself so that way you
can succeed in 2022 and beyond
so here's how
first off
if you think about content there's
roughly a billion blogs there's over 1.8
billion websites that means there's
roughly one blog for every seven people
you've heard me say that before
do we really need more content no
did you know for the term auto insurance
in the united states there's less than
two hundred thousand monthly searches
but yet over seven billion results
that's seven with the b
that's not an m b for billion
there's not even seven billion people in
the united states there's more pages in
the united states in english for the
term auto insurance indexed by google
than the whole population in the united
states heck it's close to the population
of the whole world
that's one page for every single person
that needs auto insurance just if you
take the us-based pages once if you take
all the global pages again more content
than the amount of people
so the issue you have is
there's too much content and you won't
do well if you create the same
regurgitated content so how do you
differentiate yourself with content use
stats use data
mix in your own story talk about your
experiences
see people want a fresh perspective
if you don't give them a fresh
perspective
you're not going to do well you're just
going to be the same old stuff that
everyone else is saying
and
if you can't create a fresh perspective
don't write that content piece
unless you have tons and tons of
authority which most people don't the
second way to differentiate yourself
i want you to spend more time updating
your content than writing new content i
write one blog post a week that's it one
that's roughly four a month
did you know my team
spends more time writing content than me
they're not writing new content
publishing blog posts that's what i do i
enjoy that you know what my team's doing
they're taking all my old articles from
a year ago two years ago five years ago
and they're updating it they update over
a hundred articles a month so for every
four articles i'm writing they're
updating over a hundred old articles
in essence they're spending 25 times
more than me
updating content that i am writing new
content
as i mentioned there's more content that
we need on this web so if you update
your content you're going to rank better
because google wants to keep ranking
fresh content over stale content
the third way to differentiate yourself
influencers if you look at influencer
marketing it's a rave it's a craze it's
booming it's here to stay michael jordan
nike shoes great example of this right
nike jordan boom you've got a
multi-billion dollar business kylie
jenner kylie cosmetics right makeup
industry boom you got a billion plus
dollar business
and i can keep going on and on how
influencers have been used over time to
help generate more sales for companies
beats apple bought that company beats by
dre everyone knows dr dre in the music
industry they're like you know what we
trust his sound we trust his beats we
trust the bass i don't know too much
about music so i don't know if it's
beats or
bass but you get the point and if you
think about it
adding an influencer to a brand helps
blows things up
tom brady ftx
you see tom brady in ftx commercials
you see lebron james in tonal
commercials you know tonal the fitness
machine where you have machine based
dumbbells or electric weights
that's the power of influencers if you
can combine influencers with your
marketing you'll notice that your
conversion rate goes up if you don't
have a big budget for this no worries
pick up your phone sign up for cameo pay
one of those influencers to say
something about your business and what i
want you to do
is then take that
and use it for a testimonial use it to
push your product assuming they approve
it but most times they do and it's dirt
cheap
great way to boost your conversion rates
the fourth thing that i want you to
focus on
is adding in the upsells and down cells
conversion optimization is one of the
least sexiest topics out there i don't
create too many videos about it because
no one wants to watch them our podcast
marketing school that i do with my
co-host every time we have a podcast on
conversion rate optimization one of the
lowest watched videos
but if you add in the upsells and down
sales with the rising cost of marketing
not just ads but it takes longer to get
seo results more expense to do content
marketing
if you do upsells and down sales you can
generate more revenue from each
conversion optimizing your lifetime
value which makes things more profitable
and last but not least take a
omni-channel approach you used to be
able to build a business from one
channel whether it's seo google ads
facebook ads still a lot of e-commerce
sites these days they just want to rely
on facebook ads and then boom apple
makes an ios privacy change what happens
e-commerce companies whoa our on us
doing as well yeah you should have been
relying on one channel it doesn't mean
you shouldn't use facebook ads or google
ads or seo but you need to use them all
you may not be able to use them all from
day one but eventually you can take the
omnichannel approach and go after most
of channels some may not perform as well
as others it's okay some may not drive
as much volume as others it's okay but
if you take the omnichannel approach
you'll do well in the long run and you
won't have to worry as much of for
algorithm update
if you need help with your digital
marketing in 2022 and beyond check out
my ad agency np digital if you have any
questions leave a comment below i'm here
to answer it if you enjoy the video like
it share it tell the people about it
thank you for watching